# CS 4802 Assignment 1
Thomas Clark

## Running
To run a simulation, either press **"Play"** to advance the board each second, or click **"Step"** to manually go through one generation at a time. While the simulation is playing, you can press **"Pause"** to stop it, or wait for it to automatically stop when the board stops changing.

## Generation 0
The initial generation is generated by making all cells have a 30% probability of being alive and a 70% probability of being dead.  You can click **"Randomize"** to generate a new starting configuration with a different probability, or **"Kill All"** to generate a board with no living cells.

### Custom Configurations
To customize the initial configuration, you can click empty spots to place cells, and click living cells to kill them.  This can also be done in the middle of a simulation, but only if it's paused.  To create an entirely custom configuration, click the **"Kill All"** button, then begin placing cells.

## Rules
By default, the simulation applies the standard Conway's Game of Life rules.  However, the following game presets are also available:

* **Population Growth**, where cells always reproduce into neighboring cells
* **Population Decline**, where any cells adjacent to dead cells die
* **"Blob"**, where cells with four or more neighbors are alive, regardless of their previous state.  This tends to made cells group together blob-like shapes, giving it its name.
* **26/36**, a common variation on Conway's Game of Life where dead cells with either 3 or 6 neighbors become alive.
* **Strobe**, another made-up game where all living cells die and all dead cells come alive.  This results in every cell flashing between two states at each generation.
* **Maze**, a made-up set of rules I wrote that tends to form strobing maze-like patterns.

You can select a game preset using the **"Game Presets"** panel.  The specific rules of each game are also shown when that game is selected.

### Custom Rules

You can experiment with visualizing new cellular automatons by using the custom rule feature.
1. Choose the **"Custom"** game preset
2. Click **"Add Rule"** in the custom rules panel.
3. Select the conditions that cause the rule to affect a cell, and click **"+ Add Rule"**.
4. To remove a custom rule, click the **X** next to the rule.

Any cell that does not match any custom rule will remain in its previous state.  You can use the **Play** and **Step** features to view the results of custom rules just like any other rule preset.

## Significance
### Technical
Most of the free-form features of the simulation are technical.  It features a selection of rule presets, a flexible set of way to create randomized or manually specified boards, and a system for prototyping entirely new sets of rules.  A concise textual description for each rule is also generated.  In addition, the page uses responsive design, so it will adjust itself appropriately on smartphones.
### Biological
The custom rule feature can be used to add biological significance to simulations.  Instead of just viewing the results of a single set of arbitrary rules like Conway's Game, one can add a custom set of rules to visualize an approximation of a biological process.
